Gwenevere Abriel: Good morning.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, I can hear you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and videos. Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, excellent far out. So let's see if we can find some place for me to sit. So we're not wobbling around maybe prop me on a even a workbench or something somewhere.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, I'm going to come out to the back to usually. Okay. Give me one second. I'm sorry.
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, it doesn't feel like there's any wind today so
Ariel Mirabal: Okay. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's nice. Alright so today is, um, I guess. Is this our first treatment plan review where we review your goals.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Um, so let's do that. I'm looking at them right now changing them changing the dates, just a little bit here. So one of the ones that
Gwenevere Abriel: Is for everyone that is part of this sort of accreditation question they want TOUCHED ON IT ISN'T STATED necessarily by the client, but this is something that the accreditation wants us to touch on. So when you you know how each time you do a brief addiction monitor the BAM survey. Bam.
Gwenevere Abriel: When it asks you about how you use spirituality or religion to help you in your recovery. What, what is your belief around that.
Ariel Mirabal: I always say no because, I mean, I do believe in God, fully I don't. I just don't really practice religion.
Ariel Mirabal: I am Catholic my family's Catholic
Ariel Mirabal: I just don't practice it enough and hold it right there with me, you know, all the time to to really use it to help me with my recovery process.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So is it typically like if I were to go into those fans. It takes me a few minutes, but I can get there, are you, is it a like a zero or a one, is it not at all, are you putting like
Ariel Mirabal: Like a zero if there, if it's not at all. Yeah.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All helping. Okay, got it. Okay. Um, and when you think about Catholicism. Wait, the way you grew up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Were there times in your life when you liked it and it felt like this worked with you and then other times when it, it just didn't work for you.
Ariel Mirabal: Well, growing up. We didn't have a lot of it.
Ariel Mirabal: My grandmother, though, of course, we were always around our grandparents visiting and stuff. And my, my mom's mother is extremely religious, which is why I'm, to make a long story short, my mom was
Ariel Mirabal: She, she was, she went to Catholic school all the way through high school. My grandma had her and Catholic school she had her in church every Sunday.
Ariel Mirabal: My grandmother actually goes to church every single day. So my mom kind of lived with it so much that she when she grew
Ariel Mirabal: Up and kind of went on with her life. She was like, I don't want to be at church anymore. You know, it kind of was something that she didn't really instill she instilled God in us, of course, we all of us, me and my siblings.
Ariel Mirabal: All of all of us. We do believe in God, but none of us really, you know, my sister. She has crosses in her house. You know, you know, all the beautiful things
Ariel Mirabal: And she actually is probably the one out of all of us that she'll go to church and things like that. But none of us really, you know, we believe in God, but we don't like.
Ariel Mirabal: Might like I said my sister is the only one that will be like Oreo, you know, stop and think about God, like my sister does that she will say,
Ariel Mirabal: Things like you know just just pray, you know, all the time. I sisters like that, but
Ariel Mirabal: That's not like for me. It's not like the first thing that comes to mind when I'm like in a troublesome spot or thought or something. I'm not, like, Okay, I'm gonna go pray, you know, to God or something, you know, I've never been that person.
Gwenevere Abriel: So when you think about just something broader
Gwenevere Abriel: And and just first thing that comes to mind when you think about this broader idea of something
Gwenevere Abriel: Higher than yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does it determine your future do you determine your future, what's your connection to something greater than yourself.
Ariel Mirabal: It's for me. I don't even feel like I have a connection with that with something greater than myself like something like that because
Ariel Mirabal: Otherwise I would probably feel like a little bit more of praying to God for something for about thought or, you know, I'm having a bad time. I think I just need to pray right now.
Ariel Mirabal: I think that I should be doing more things like that because you know I want my daughter to do I want her to have something else to believe in
Ariel Mirabal: You know, and I always say that to myself if I didn't believe in God or that there was a heaven I would be in a really bad place after my after I lost my dad, I would have been in a worse place.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I was. Notice how those two things, sit out there. I believe in God. I believe in a heaven. And I think that's what you're saying heaven.
Ariel Mirabal: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'm not connected to a higher power.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, it's hard to just
Gwenevere Abriel: You only get to connect when you fast away.
Ariel Mirabal: I don't know. I'm one of those people. That's like
Ariel Mirabal: Like you know how you hear some people say, like, you know, give your problems to God.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm a person that doesn't. I don't understand that. I think I'm happy. I think that I have just a hard time understanding things because I don't open up enough
Ariel Mirabal: To look into them more
Ariel Mirabal: Because it's like how could you give your problems to how could you do that and I feel like I need, I need to fix my problems. I'm the one that needs to, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is a piece of a much larger conversation, but you just gave me some very interesting pieces to it. Just want to make a little note around that. So your perception is if there is a problem. I have to solve it.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: It's always been how I felt about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm kind of want to talk to you a little bit about how many times, or do you even know what the Serenity Prayer is
Ariel Mirabal: I do know what the Serenity Prayer is
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh. You haven't memorized.
And
Ariel Mirabal: Like pieces bits and pieces.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well,
Ariel Mirabal: Give me the serenity.
Ariel Mirabal: To handle what I it's it's so hard to remember right now, but I do know what the Serenity Prayer is it's hard to remember. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you got you just got this is not a quiz in this is really what sticks and You almost said a piece. Good. So just go with the pieces. This is, this is no judgment. I just want to see where it lives inside the memory.
Gwenevere Abriel: Give it a shot. I'm going to pull it out. We're going to look at it together to see how much you can actually
Ariel Mirabal: Know, I know I'm like kicking myself in the
Ariel Mirabal: In the teeth. Now,
Ariel Mirabal: It's like, God, give me the serenity.
Ariel Mirabal: To handle things I can't change something like that. It's like
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so just that part handle this things I can change. So what if we just, if that's the piece you're holding on to right that's the piece that sticks if when you visit this if you ever have. That's the part that's there, doesn't matter what the actual one is
Gwenevere Abriel: I've got a screen if we want to we can look at it, but this
Gwenevere Abriel: Distinction between if it's my problem. I have to solve it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the Serenity Prayer gives its, its listener, it's it's believer is
Ariel Mirabal: I'm asking him for his drink.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well let's look again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Give me, which means outside yourself. The peace of mind however you define serenity is that piece. Give me the clarity, give me serenity no stress no anger no sorrow. Isn't that living in serenity. Give me the serenity.
Gwenevere Abriel: To handle
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's put back on your lap.
Ariel Mirabal: There's something about strength in this prayer. I'm trying to say like
Ariel Mirabal: God giving you the strength
Gwenevere Abriel: You are so we're almost there. So, but it's so your hands up here. Give me the peace, the strength. But then, back to you. You give me the serenity to handle
Gwenevere Abriel: The things I can't change you put it back in your lap. That is why I'm guessing you are at where we started. It's my problem. I've got a handle it. The only part that stuck with you is all the problems are back in your lap. You're just asking that you be chill while you handle them.
Gwenevere Abriel: And if this prayer asks more this, whether it's prayer or however you want to think about it. You can replace God with higher power universe love
Gwenevere Abriel: A lot of people for a lot of people. It's that that's what's pure. That's what's perfect is maybe they can find this perfection in love for a daughter, you might find that that's an ambivalent, it's very clear. This is what love is. I know it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then that's the source of all it's right there. You can play with it. I'm not stuck on whether it's labeled Catholicism Buddhism, Taoism i'm i'm not stuck in that
Gwenevere Abriel: I want whatever works for you guys. If it's God and this one probably will work just fine. But did you notice how you're asking. Let me have a peaceful experience of sitting with the things I can't change.
Gwenevere Abriel: I saw still on your shoulders. That's still a lot of pressure on you.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the way it looks.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because look what you said give me serenity to handle the things I cannot change. That's what stuck.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are saying, I'm still gonna have to deal but help me deal without like losing my serenity.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see that the stuck around with it's consistent with I still have to work it out.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to look at it now and see what's actually there. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just give him peace and I'm going to shut up and I want you to see.
Gwenevere Abriel: The piece that's missing.
OK.
Ariel Mirabal: To accept
Ariel Mirabal: God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change courage to change the things I can and wisdom to know the difference.
Ariel Mirabal: courage and wisdom.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have courage you have wisdom. I don't think those are the pieces you are courageous you have wisdom, but that's still back in your lap. There's still something that wasn't in what you remember that is in this
Gwenevere Abriel: Right here about this, except what I can't change. Notice how what you remembered was I got to be able to handle
Ariel Mirabal: Except, yeah. That's the first thing that I noticed
Gwenevere Abriel: What you weren't
Gwenevere Abriel: Know you still had to solve the things you can't change.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that is the difference. That's one really big difference. No, it's more like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: I get it, I cannot change in law behavior. I cannot change. A, B and C. You put your hands up. That's where you have faith.
Gwenevere Abriel: Faith means you put your hands up and you walk forward into the abyss of unknown anyway. So you say, I believe in God. Well, do you, will you put your hands up like this and say I accept it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know everything there is about, let's say the recovery process or what it means to finish my degree or something. But I'm going to put my hands up. And I'm just going to say this is coming from a loving intention and I'm going to do it, not knowing how I will get there.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'm going to go and I'm going to trust and I'm going to move forward in the things that I believe in and the distinction is except what I can't change. So if right now you're spending all your energy around this coven
Gwenevere Abriel: railing against it. How could this be happening I'm such a good person. This can't be real. Let's say you spent
Gwenevere Abriel: 10 hours a day doing that to yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: This would, that would that would be one of them. You gotta have to accept it. It's real. This is happening. Our communities are are having to really make significant changes.
Ariel Mirabal: Right. Yeah, absolutely.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just let's not go any further. Where do you think you need more acceptance versus you hammering away at it. I think that have nothing to do with you.
Ariel Mirabal: I mean, I have a lot of faith, but I think that I need to have more
Ariel Mirabal: I need to have more faith and like you said just putting my hands up and walking out into the abyss and saying, I accept
Ariel Mirabal: This the things I can't change, you know, and that's what I truly think that I need to work on also
Ariel Mirabal: As learn to accept things that I can't change.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did you do yesterday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's get specific. We can philosophize, and it won't move us forward into our dreams into our visions. If we can't see the real yeah yes in our lives.
Um,
Ariel Mirabal: I mean,
Ariel Mirabal: Nothing really yesterday, specifically, but I mean,
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you sure where are you tired.
Ariel Mirabal: And you read probably think about something for every day, you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Tired and I fought it. And I said, No, this can't be and I should use a substance to address my tiredness, it can be that subtle. No, no. Sometimes we're just tired.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes. Sometimes we're just impatient. Sometimes we're the one that starts the fight.
Gwenevere Abriel: That happen.
Ariel Mirabal: But used to be my mind frame with like the drinking and stuff. It's like, oh, well, if I just take a shot, it'll give me a little bit more energy.
Like
Ariel Mirabal: I'm so tired. Right now I'm just going to go drink so I could get some energy
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, there it is. See, you know, I came up with that though that one, don't count.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, no, it's just so easy to say you know now thinking about it. The wheels start turning um
Ariel Mirabal: Let me think.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take your time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Might be around relationships wishing hoping someone would be different. And if only I'll change all change then or if I could say what just understand my then they'll change.
Gwenevere Abriel: It could be around something like that.
Ariel Mirabal: Oh,
Ariel Mirabal: Relationships would probably be a big one. I can think of, of course.
Ariel Mirabal: My boyfriend. I think that
Ariel Mirabal: He
Ariel Mirabal: He doesn't do anything. But every now and then he'll have a relapse. I know that he used to be particularly particularly, excuse me, on pain medication, a long time ago.
Ariel Mirabal: But I felt like maybe that's a part of his past and it's gone, but I've seen him do it a couple of times within the past couple of years, and I get really upset about it, like I'm trying to change it. I'm trying to make a, you know, and it's like those are one of those things where
Ariel Mirabal: Should I be, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, let's look at it. Let's just see what's the pilot. Let's see if this is the one. It might be a different skill might not be this one might be something else. Let's just see how you feel. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's put it in there. Just imagine there's you seeing with your own eyes. Oh my gosh, I can tell he's using
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't want this to be true God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change.
Gwenevere Abriel: Change what someone does, I cannot. I can't make him heal. I can't make him want to get better. And here we go. Here's the second half.
Gwenevere Abriel: And Arielle the courage to change the things I can, and this is the massive change and to know to have the wisdom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of when do I put my energy into something that I can change and when do I put my hands up and just say let go and let God. How do I know when. Oh, that's why these are so big. Give me the serenity, help me know where that is helped me distinguish what is my problem versus your problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: Give me the wisdom that's key here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Give me the wisdom to know when I'm to lean into faith and just let them work it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Versus I can do something right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's in line with my moral standards, I will do something now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where's that line between
Gwenevere Abriel: What's yours and what's mine when it comes to boyfriend. Do you have the wisdom to know the difference.
Ariel Mirabal: I feel like with some things maybe not. But with that, I feel like I do, it's, I don't know if it's just like I i love him. And you know, I care about him, obviously. And I want him to be well
Ariel Mirabal: Not just for us, but for himself, you know, and of course our daughter and things so I feel like that's one of those things where I want you know you can lead a horse to the water, but you can't make him drink it. I kind of want to help lead him to the water. You know, like
Ariel Mirabal: Make him.
Ariel Mirabal: Make him. I can't make him stop. I can't make him not want to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And why
Gwenevere Abriel: You know something's off when you got upset.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah. Um, and then I think maybe I can, I can help him to I can help him to want to not do it anymore. All the time, you know, then there's just
Ariel Mirabal: Then the not getting upset that would be okay. I accept I accept that I couldn't change it. You know it. I tried, but it happened anything's you know
Ariel Mirabal: Instead of oh my god you know I've, I was trying to help you and I can't believe you just did it anyways. You know, you promised you weren't going to do it again and then a big fight, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So did you in the past have a difficult time seeing where your problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or his problem how they overlapped how you made his problem your problem. Got yourself offended because he didn't accept your solution.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, all the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's why this is useful again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really elegantly put this slide years in the making this type of Serenity Prayer. Right. This came about from a lot of people sitting with what am I trying to control here. Is it my place to control it. Where is it, enabling, where is it coaching. How do we know
Ariel Mirabal: I've always had such a hard time with that. I feel like growing up. I didn't really pay attention much attention to that prayer or anything about it.
Ariel Mirabal: And, you know, of course, like I said, we didn't practice religion, you know, and stuff. Growing up, I feel like I was just a normal teenager, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: And then after high school. It was like I felt like that was my time just to be wild and crazy and that's pretty much what I was all the time. Every weekend out with my friends drinking camping, whatever.
Ariel Mirabal: But none of that. I just none of that ever came to mind. It's like I was always just a free
Ariel Mirabal: Just go, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's back up to the distinction between enabling and coaching.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, so that's what I was saying, I feel like I pretty much
Ariel Mirabal: Have always just had a hard time just
Ariel Mirabal: Just like
Gwenevere Abriel: We'll see.
Ariel Mirabal: Friends. Yeah, between the two of those, because I've always been the person I feel like I've always been more like I'm like super opinionated. I'm like, on one end of that, you know, I feel like
Ariel Mirabal: I'm never I'm always the person that gets so upset right away about something that I can't change instead of just accepting it. I've never been the person that could just accept something
Ariel Mirabal: I always fight. I always find something I noticed about myself. I'm a fighter. I'm like, wait a minute, why, why can this happen. No, no, that's not right. Like this is I'm going to try to make this happen. You know, I've always been like that.
Ariel Mirabal: Well, it's like
Ariel Mirabal: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: One thing might be you know too much Pepper. Pepper still good, but a little too much pepper soup. So, but we don't want to throw the whole thing out. It's a great energy. It's a great vitality
Gwenevere Abriel: But let's just come back. I just really want to see this since we picked up this concept of
Gwenevere Abriel: Control acceptance and we picked up this notion of boyfriend is substance use and you're kind of not knowing where his problem begins and kind of where you begin where he ends and where that is. So if we just say for now then, enabling is
Gwenevere Abriel: Doing for others.
Gwenevere Abriel: They can do for themselves.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if they could have done it for themselves. And I did it. My enabled. I made it possible for them to not have to do it themselves, which reinforces them never doing it for themselves. That's the simplest explanation of it. But if instead. If you think about the kid right when
Gwenevere Abriel: You put it in the basket.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's our first one. Oh, we got our stinky socks. Let's walk it over together. But if you always do it and then you give said daughter a hard time about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you always did it, we can't be too surprised. But if instead we say
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, can you pick yourself up. Oh, nice. Can you walk. Well, you can pick things up and you can walk. Can you drop it. Can you let go of the grip. Well, those are the only skills you need
Gwenevere Abriel: And so then we watch and we say good job. Nicely done. You feel proud of yourself. Yeah, yeah. Cool, cool, cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is the difficult part when we see people in our life hurting themselves. It's just sit back and as a coach, do I get on the field.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't my players play
Gwenevere Abriel: And I can say. Remember, remember the play, we plan for the game.
Gwenevere Abriel: Getting your position.
Gwenevere Abriel: You could do it. You can remember the play. Remember the play, but I can't get on the field. Can I, I can't kick the ball for him as the coach right
Gwenevere Abriel: I can encourage okay let's let's have a timeout everyone
Gwenevere Abriel: Well alright, how we do it. We can bump up the self esteem. We can coach and cheerlead and say, all right, we're how we're doing. Let's assess our progress.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are our strengths. We people that are approved. We can pull them out, put in new players. Right. And maybe because I'm on the sideline, I can see things from a different perspective, because I'm not on the field.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can see all the different moving parts.
Ariel Mirabal: Encouragement and like motivation and stuff. It's really what I want to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can offer it with your acceptance. My guess is is going to come in with accepting that its own welcomed and done wanted
Gwenevere Abriel: So then you get to be pissed off. How could you not love me enough to quit care about my daughter. HOW COULD YOU HOW COULD YOU HOW COULD YOU is that
Gwenevere Abriel: Everything.
Ariel Mirabal: And I'm like, sometimes like I'll tell him like just most recently when he did it, it was like
Ariel Mirabal: I can't remember exactly what I said it was something like, you know, I'm working so hard to try to you know better myself and stay sober and you're over here doing this.
Ariel Mirabal: And it's like, so sometimes I compare myself to him, and I'm not perfect. You know, I've had relapses and things. I'm just trying to, you know, stay better to
Ariel Mirabal: But I can't be. I don't feel like that's right. I don't feel like I should be comparing, you know, and sometimes I just like, throw it out and like
Ariel Mirabal: Stuff to try to make him feel bad and I don't really want to have on the on the spot. I'm like men will this work will this make him want to, but it's like that's not the right you know it's obviously not the right way to do it, making somebody feel bad, isn't the right way to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Ariel Mirabal: You want to make them feel that
Gwenevere Abriel: It wouldn't work for you either if someone tried to guilt trip you into it. We just present them senior
Gwenevere Abriel: Group and they were like, how could you do that, you know, you'd resent them not want to go to group anymore. You wouldn't feel accepted but if on the sidelines. You were sharing. So if you wonder what to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's sharing your hope your, your stories and saying, This is what I've done to overcome the temptation to want to bypass.
Gwenevere Abriel: leap over escape and avoid the truth. I'm tired. I'm broke, I'm in. I'm in an argument I'm whatever I'm scared I'm I'm feeling guilty about something.
Gwenevere Abriel: I no longer, right, sweetheart. I no longer can sleep over it. I actually have to sit with my feelings and as uncomfortable as it is. It turns out they only last about a half hour if I really pay attention to them if I journal
Gwenevere Abriel: I've been noticing. I've been doing this breath work that's helping. I've been doing these distraction techniques that's helping talking with other people that are going through it's helping me
Gwenevere Abriel: Instead of telling people using a guilt trip leverage leveraging love to maybe motivate people, which is a pretty common one for folks when they don't know what else to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is to talk about your own experience.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what a coach now go back to coach position right we were in coach for, like, okay, I did this, I remember when I was a kid when I needed to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was I would make sure I stretch tonight. I ran on the weekends to stay in shape, even when they're sort of asked what I did. You guys want to kind of give that a try. Okay, go for it. But that's what I did.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you can talk about your own and you'll know you're doing it because you'll just stick with the I, I've noticed when I've been low on energy we're normally I was going for a drink.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've been doing this other thing I'm trying radical acceptance now and I'm like, what's really wrong with being tired.
Gwenevere Abriel: I still get some things done nothing catastrophic happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I have another day of sobriety. So
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe it's okay that sometimes I'm tired.
Gwenevere Abriel: So key thing is
Gwenevere Abriel: I
Gwenevere Abriel: Versus you and then you just let go of outcome you just he's gonna buy it, take it on, try it. Or he won't you let go of outcome like
Ariel Mirabal: That is
Gwenevere Abriel: It's huge. That's why I remember this word in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you were saying was this word handle was your verb but it's
Gwenevere Abriel: A big verb is starting with acceptance, you cannot change his motivation. He is either going to help he'll either want to do it or he won't. And as inconvenience. It is
Gwenevere Abriel: There it is. Nonetheless, this is someone who's using. I don't know how much
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not wanting it to be so because you're getting sober. You're the one getting sober. He sees and the one to sign up for this gig. You did.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is not an easy thing to do. Your you're addressing and there's a few of you that are addressing maybe both alcohol.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the, the opiate dependence. They're also addressing you'll hear them and narratives meth and opiates, because it's both or another stimulant this up down thing that was needed in order to kind of survive.
Gwenevere Abriel: But meth may be their preferred choice, but then they ended up getting this chemical dependence on the opiate because they needed to come down, you know, either way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your acceptance might be a really big change for you.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, I agree.
Gwenevere Abriel: The phrase that I use.
Gwenevere Abriel: You've probably heard me say this.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you see someone doing something that you don't approve of, or you wouldn't do yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe just asking yourself, is this a meat problem. Are you from
Gwenevere Abriel: And if you
Gwenevere Abriel: Say it because it's gonna piss them off, but I
Ariel Mirabal: Run my mouth run. So that's where I go. Ba ba ba ba my mouth opens right away.
Ariel Mirabal: It's awful. Like, oh my god, I saw this lady like stealing from a gas station one time and Silly me. I go open my mouth and this lady comes over, like tries to beat me up, you know, I'm like getting in my car like oh my god I shouldn't have said anything. It's like my mouth just
Ariel Mirabal: You idiot. Don't say anything to show
Ariel Mirabal: Oh man it's
Gwenevere Abriel: So, well, maybe you have some some challenges in in sort of inhibiting that impulse. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But there's been times when you have been able to, I know because I've seen you in group if you were in group and you couldn't inhibit it you would be talking the whole time and no one would have a chance to talk. I know you can do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know you've had thoughts and wanted to. And did I know you can do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So start, you know, we go to the breath, and we take a deep breath and then we go. Is this a me problem are you problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you just even that amount of time that can define our boundaries that can define my about to do some enabling right now this isn't for me to solve. I'm going to do the things that are within my control. I'll go do some things that feel good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, you know what I'm going to drive safely home or a little authorities certainly my job to discipline the planet and teach them right from wrong. This one's really I, you know, my God.
Ariel Mirabal: brought this up because it's a huge like
Ariel Mirabal: It's kind of like you brought me into this like reminded because this is definitely something that I i
Ariel Mirabal: It's huge for me. I really, really, really need to work on that. And it's not something I think about every day, like, oh, I need to get help for that and counseling. You know, I didn't
Ariel Mirabal: So it's really appreciate you getting into this conversation about that because it's really I think that now that you've kind of like pinpointed it and it's like I'm looking at it and it is. It's one of my biggest problems.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean it what what what's the it the
Ariel Mirabal: It is that I don't just that big word. I can accept. I just can't. It's like I keep seeing that word in my head. Now, except it's like
Ariel Mirabal: I, I can't, you know, and then this other than you just know said I can't discipline the world discipline the world and make them do the right thing all the time, you know, because it's like when it's true. When I see somebody doing something that's
Ariel Mirabal: Wrong, or if I'm talking with somebody and i know that i mean i know that they're wrong about something and I you can't change that. But it's like, then that's when the argue comes out. And I'm like, No, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's, let's, since we're here at our treatment goal review anyway. And the ones we had I'm opening them up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or some of them are pretty vague because they were when we just met. So why don't we make some more ones that are really personal for you, ones that
Gwenevere Abriel: Will have a meaningful register of change. So let's get into that just a little bit so
Gwenevere Abriel: What you have here is I want to be more patient with my daughter. I want to slow down my mind so down the running thoughts. I want to research more fun activities decrease reported symptoms of depression. That one's me
Gwenevere Abriel: Routine implementation emotional regulation skills that one's me you are increased exercise. I want to get a gym membership more of yours include
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to continue to be with positive people that will help me stay clean. I want a job. I want to be able to completely stay away from all substances. Let's add one that has to do with acceptance. Now hold on yourself because we're going to have to measure it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Haha, so that means I'm assuming you want more acceptance. Is that right,
Ariel Mirabal: I want to be able to accept more
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, have to measure that. So I wonder how we'll measure it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah so. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So notice that we were talking about
Gwenevere Abriel: We were talking about a relationship. We were also talking about a stranger, we were talking about. So you are there are ways to measure it. So if your goal is, and I write it down. I want more. I want to accept more
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, I and I guess that that kind of is the issue with me getting so and probably most of the time me getting so upset with my daughter is that exactly
Ariel Mirabal: You know, maybe I wouldn't even I wouldn't even go near the place of getting so upset so often. And that wouldn't even be an issue. If I could just learn how to be that person that
Ariel Mirabal: could accept more things like, you know, except the fact that she's you know she's still learning. She doesn't just know you know obviously
Ariel Mirabal: It's like there's so many things. Now, just thinking about that one thing now that just leads into so many different things that I've had problems with and it's like
Ariel Mirabal: I even feel like I've burned friendships because of that, like one when it's not your place to say something, you know, what are you gonna say it anyways, like, Hey, your boyfriend's cheating on you, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: I caught him.
Ariel Mirabal: But maybe even though I'm the one that caught him. They're both my friends, I shouldn't go tell you know what I mean, it's one of those things. I feel like that's that was that's kind of a rough one them.
Ariel Mirabal: So I have a hard time with that one.
Ariel Mirabal: On what I should what you should be doing with something like that, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so your mind goes very fast. And that's a blessing. And it's probably been a little bit of a challenge at times. So what I do, which can be uncomfortable for people is I slow it down.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we are, believe it or not, at the top of the hour, my client just walked in, but I want to get really clear about what the objective is, so this is the measurability, this is where my input comes in. Your goal is, I want to accept more
Gwenevere Abriel: I think we need a little bit more to that may be something like
Ariel Mirabal: A like TechCrunch, like I want to accept tomorrow, but I can't.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wow, that's it. Okay, so, and we're going to be measuring that. So let's take client will
Gwenevere Abriel: What will acceptance look on you will look like on you probably something client will notice I'm right.
And recently.
Ariel Mirabal: Decrease in I wouldn't say anger so much because I'm not really an angry person. But decrease in
Ariel Mirabal: Like want to say something about like reactions like my
Ariel Mirabal: My instant reactions.
Ariel Mirabal: That aren't so good. Um, I don't know how to say that I would just say, angry, I guess, decrease
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me, let me do the job you're doing it. You don't have to do my job for me. You're doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Just so sweet. So you already have yours. So the art comes in in my finding some tasks that will get you there. Okay, so here's I've got an idea. What if all you have to catch is off. I'm right.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you can catch it there. I'm right and you're indignant, and you're righteous and you're like, oh, I'm right. And that's all you just grab it. Okay, got that one. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. You're going to know it, right, I got some to say, and I'm I tell them, but you don't what you're going to do is you're going to just grab it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So wrong. It's so obvious, they're wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you do three belly breaths and then you think to yourself, we'll try it on. Is this is the problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or is this a you problem and you just get that far. Because what may happen is you may end up deciding this isn't a good budgeting of my time.
Gwenevere Abriel: You may remember, other things like it's not, I'm not the world police what I can do, if you can remember this, this would be great. Is this a me problem or a huge problem. If you can do the next one which is
Gwenevere Abriel: To choose curiosity over being right that's a huge one, usually a separate those two it will make a profound difference
Ariel Mirabal: Pretty
Gwenevere Abriel: Over being right. This is what it looks like. And I don't have a lot of time, but I'm going to show you really quick. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: Now that's interesting.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to catch feeling righteous. You can catch it, especially if you have any boy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Any Catholic background, you're going to register all of that really fast. So you're going to feel right. Oh, oh, oh, I got this really good explanation, but what they're doing. That's not good. And I got, it's good. You're going to catch it there and you're going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Do three breaths to building breath three if you can manage one. Great, then you're going to think to yourself, what, what's your new mantra.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is this a knee problem or a huge problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah yeah yeah yeah that's they got to work that out. Okay, what's the second thing I gotta do. I'm going to choose curiosity over being right.
Gwenevere Abriel: How do I manifest that how does that show up if I'm thinking it so I got my two little mantras here. Got my two mantras. How do I show curiosity.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, instead of preaching and teaching
Gwenevere Abriel: Do some asking really genuinely but don't do unless you actually want to know, even a little bit about how they came to that conclusion and don't ask the why question that will make them defensive
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so tell me, Sarah, how, how long have you had that that idea about how this works like was that how your parents thought or how did you come to this. I'm so curious.
Gwenevere Abriel: Only do it until you're ready so you stay quiet. Quiet. Quiet, quiet normally asked when you really are curious that there might be another human being that came to a different conclusion.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that everybody does the best they can with what they know and we get out of a position of judging judging judging. Why don't we just get curious. I know I am.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have to be
Gwenevere Abriel: You guys come up with solutions, whatever your friend, family, your daughter. That's her solution. You gotta respect that there are a lot of different ways to get a problem solved.
Ariel Mirabal: That's really interesting. I really, really, really like that.
Ariel Mirabal: And I've heard I've
Ariel Mirabal: I think I've even heard you do that before with the curious thing.
Ariel Mirabal: That's really interesting. And I, I mean maybe I've done that before to just on a on a wing, you know, before I just I've definitely heard that I've heard it before. And people just
Ariel Mirabal: Most many times in my life, I've heard people do that. And it's like, I'm always like I said, I've always been the person that just fly straight through it.
Just
Ariel Mirabal: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Damn.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm going to try it. I'm going to really try it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is this a knee, probably you problem. Oh yeah, I'm sticking my nose and nobody asked for my opinion, who may hang on a second one.
Gwenevere Abriel: She was curiosity. Well, I felt so right. I feel so right okay at least are arguing
Gwenevere Abriel: alienating people. Okay. Oh, hey, I do actually kind of want to know, and all of a sudden, it comes up and you find, you're like yeah and then you ask a genuine question why questions will get defensive let's pick another time. I know this girl is going to be like wow
Ariel Mirabal: That's cool. That's perfect, that's like, thank you so much for that.
Ariel Mirabal: All of that was super helpful. I'm going to try that.
Ariel Mirabal: I already today.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have you down here. I already have a little spot for 8am. On April 22 it'll feel like this next Wednesday, April.
Gwenevere Abriel: April, is that right now. April 22 at 8am.
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have medication bridge today. Should I be messaging, a doctor.
Ariel Mirabal: Um, it is until today. And actually, do you mind if I run and check really quick just to be sure. So I don't kick myself in the foot like I did last time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, my
Gwenevere Abriel: Point is
Gwenevere Abriel: Your groups tomorrow. Right.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, I'm pretty sure I'm okay, till tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'm just going to message, your doctor anyway just let her know that you were here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, okay. I'll see you in group.
Ariel Mirabal: Already. See you tomorrow. Bye.